


In the algorithm accordingly: feature transformations
In the algorithm accordingly : feature derivations
In the algorithm accordingly : cross – validation 
In the cross – validation : Do the feature selections 
In the cross – validation choose Hyper parameter optimizations like Grid Search
Check with data leaks, imbalance
Train algorithm for baseline
Train many algorithms 
Low cost function optimizations process
Hyper-parameters tunning 
Ensemble -  Combinding different models
Evaluation – Manually examines the error / Identify more ways of doing numerical evalucation
Finally – model deploment processs / intergration into apps
Inference  - new real life leading to model predictions



1 Pick a probelm you ‘re interested in .

- we can pick titanic dataset and create model that predicts which passengers survived the titanic shipwreck...


2 Understand the problem

- titanic : machine learning from Disaster predict survival on the titanic and get familliars with machine learning basic ...


3  Identify your ideal outcome like : Note that the outcome may be quite different from how to assess the model and it’s quality .. our ideal outcome is keeping with the example

- it is job to predict if a passenger survived the sinking of the titanic or not .. for each in the test set , you must predict a 0 and 1 value for the variable .

- (in competition and real world both scenario are different but lets define to baseline model)

example :

PassengerId		Survived
892				0
893				1
894				0


4	Understand the evaluation matric : write down your metrics for success and failure with ml system . The failure metrics are important ..


- (in competition and real world both scenario are different but lets define to baseline model)

- our score is the percentage of passengers you correctly predict. this is knows as accuracy ..

5 	Exploratory Data analysis  / Get conclsion about atleast of Baseline model

-  exploratory data analysis is basically helps us to identify baseline model esaily , also we can use excel tool to just view data in different ways . in EDA we can plot numerical / categorical feature and study Correlations .


5	Identify baseline model

how to get baseline model - this is very common query but very nice question without checking data just flying with your knowledge of problem statements ... with different alogorithm diversity ..


5  write down in words theories or assumptions / statistical test for validate of theories ..


6	Choose the algorithm

-  will use a simple logistic regression  that takes features in X and create a regression line . this is done using logisticRegression module in Sckit-Learn .


7 In the algorithm accordingly : clean the data

in clean part of the dataset we have follow bit levels steps :

1. handle missing data - missing categorical , missing numeric data
2. remove unwanted observation - duplicate observations , irrelevant observations .

8 In the algorithm accordingly: scaling the data









	








